[DOC] Procedure for upgrading AMQ Streams on RHEL (#40)
rh-messaging/amq-streams-docs: books/proc-updating-kafka-brokers-to-new-message-format-version.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-upgrade-1-1-0.adoc

[id='proc-updating-kafka-brokers-to-new-message-format-version-{context}']

= Updating Kafka brokers to the new message format version

> When client applications have been upgraded, you can update the Kafka brokers to use the new message format version (2.1). 

Reviewer: I think the point that users need to understand here is that the brokers `log.message.format.version` is the default value for the topic-level `message.format.version`. So if they have followed the previous procedure for upgrading their clients on a topic-by-topic basis then all their existing topics will have `message.format.version` set to the new version. In that case this proc doesn't really do anything (though it would affect new topics created without `message.format.version` set).

On the other hand, you cannot assume that all users will upgrade their clients following that advice. It might be easier for them to just upgrade all the consumers and all the producers, without bothering to change topic configs. At that point their brokers are having to do a lot of downconversion and this procedure is really important for having the brokers stop doing that.

> NOTE: To avoid downtime, update and restart the Kafka brokers one-by-one.

Reviewer: Same comment here about restarting brokers too quickly.

.Prerequisites
* You have upgraded to {ProductName} 1.1.0

> * You have downgraded Kafka brokers to use the previous inter-broker protocol and message format versions and tested performance.

Reviewer: I agree with Jakub that using "downgraded" to describe _configuring_ these things is a little misleading.

* You have updated Kafka brokers to use the new inter-broker protocol version.

> * You have upgraded client applications to the new Kafka version.

Reviewer: I think they key thing here is that they've upgraded all consuming applications which are consuming from topics which don't have `message.format.version` configured. (If they've not upgraded all the producers that shouldn't matter).

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-upgrade-1-1-0.adoc

[id='proc-updating-kafka-brokers-to-new-message-format-version-{context}']

= Updating Kafka brokers to the new message format version

When client applications have been upgraded, you can update the Kafka brokers to use the new message format version (2.1).

If you did _not_ modify topic configurations when you upgraded your client applications to Kafka 2.1.1, the Kafka brokers are now converting messages down to message format version 2.0, which can cause a reduction in performance. Therefore, it is important that you update all Kafka brokers to use the new message format version as soon as possible.

NOTE: Update and restart the Kafka brokers one-by-one. Before you restart a modified broker, stop the broker you configured and restarted previously.

.Prerequisites

* You have updated the Zookeeper binaries.
* You have updated all Kafka brokers to use the previous inter-broker protocol and message format versions (2.0).
* You have upgraded all Kafka brokers to {ProductName} 1.1.0
* You have updated Kafka brokers to use the new inter-broker protocol version (2.1).

> * You have upgraded supported client applications that consume messages from topics for which the `message.format.version` property is _not_ manually configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have upgraded supported client applications that consume messages from topics for which the `message.format.version` property is _not_ explicitly configured at the topic level
```
